readme.md, before:

# Property Boundaries Service

This service manages a database and an api to serve data from the land registry's polygon and company ownership data. It uses mysql and typescript.

## Requirements

- Nodejs
- MySQL
- [GDAL tools](https://gdal.org/download.html) (includes the `ogr2ogr` command line tool)
- PM2 (for running in production)
- Nodemon (for running in development)

## Installation

- `npm install` to install the required packages.
- Copy `.env.example` and rename the copy to `.env`.
- Fill in the `.env` with the database credentials and government gateway api key (in Bitwarden).
- `npx sequelize-cli db:migrate` to run the migration scripts that create the tables of the database.

## Running

- `npm run build` to transpile the typescript code into javascript in the `/dist` folder.
- `npm run generate` to download the polygon and company data and store it in the database.
- `npm run analyse` to run the analysis script.
- `npm run plot` to plot the results of the analysis script.
- `npm serve` or `npm dev:serve` to start the server responding to api requests.

## Database Migration

- `npx sequelize-cli db:migrate:undo:all` to reset migration

Commit message:

Add ownerships update script, pipeline DB table, reorganise folder structure, deploy script

readme.md, after:

# Property Boundaries Service

This service manages a database and an API to serve data from the land registry's INSPIRE polygon and company ownership data. The service also has a pipeline that, when run, updates the database with the latest land registry data and backs up old data.

## Requirements

- Nodejs
- MySQL
- [GDAL tools](https://gdal.org/download.html) (includes the `ogr2ogr` command line tool)
- PM2 (for running in production)
- Nodemon (for running in development)

## Installation

- `npm install` to install the required packages.
- Copy `.env.example` and rename the copy to `.env`.
- Fill in the `.env` with the database credentials and government gateway api key (in Bitwarden).
- `npx sequelize-cli db:migrate` to run the migration scripts that create the tables of the database.

## Running

- `npm run build` to transpile the typescript code into javascript in the `/dist` folder.
- `npm run download` to download the INSPIRE data for each council, transform it to GeoJSON, and store the JSON files in the `/geojson` folder.
- `npm run analyse` to run the analysis script.
- `npm run plot` to plot the results of the analysis script.
- `npm serve` or `npm dev:serve` to start the server responding to api requests.

## Useful dev commands

- `npx sequelize-cli db:migrate:undo:all` to reset database migrations

## TODO

- Fully spec the behaviour of the pipeline, in particular the matching algorithm for INSPIRE
  polygons, then add unit tests for this spec

  - Use Mocha for writing a specification and tests, like we have started to do on the [Land Explorer backend](https://github.com/DigitalCommons/land-explorer-front-end/wiki/Testing#unit-tests)
  - Add these tests to a Github CI pipeline, like on LX backend

- Add some docs to `/docs` to give a high-level overview of what the pipeline is doing. But wherever possible,
  especially for low-level details, prefer Mocha specs over written
  documentation. Docs can be ignored but unit tests can't.
- Create an admin panel, maybe with a library like `react-admin`, so that we can easily search through our DB and visualise the results of pipelines. It would be great if pipelines created visualisations of some of the changed polygons, which could then be viewed in the admin panel, including:
  - a sample of successful matches (for quality control)
  - the full set of failed matches, which will indicate ways to improve the algorithm going forwards
